Alone.
Welcome back to the course and the programming.
Today we're going to talk about a very quick concept but nevertheless it's that important.
I thought it's worthwhile creating a separate tutorial for this concept and the concept is about slicing
arrays.
So we've already spoken about slicing Lisanne we talked about that in a lot of detail so where did you
know that we can take a list which we have here.
This is the list from our previous tutorial.
So we have a list here of four elements and we can take for instance everything from elements of number
one on words or we can take everything between element number 0 and 0 1 2.
And just look at that.
So that will be element 0 element 1 and 2 is not inclusive or we can take everything and then just move
a step of two.
So basically take the element of number 0 element number 1 element for number two because the step is
true so we know all those things.
Now can we slice arrays in a similar way.
Well yes we can.
Yes of course we can.
So let's have a look at that.
So there is our array.
And now if we slice it we say A and for example we'll say everything for all element with number 2.
So 0 1 2 from 5 and 546 onwards.
Iran that you have the rest of the array or you can say a basically everything from 2 to element with
number so that 0 1 2 3 4 element will say Almont for Selby's 0 1 2.
So from here 3 but not including 4 so it will be up to here so just those two elements for on that and
so on.
But the important thing about slicing arrays is that whenever you slice an array you don't create a
copy of that array.
So if lists you're creating another list that has those values and therefore you can just work with
it separate with arrays.
You're not creating a new other copy that's important to remember.
So if I say something like this let's say a B equals that slice.
You might think that.
Oh yes I've created another array It's called B.
Now I can look at what actually you've just created is a view of the array.
So now if I say A B and for example I say what is element 0 in B is 546.
Correct this error B that's only 506 or let's say what it is.
What are you.
I want to take all the elements of A B right there find 4 6 and turn 15 and let's say I want to assign
them a value of 111.
Let's do that.
So I'm going to assign B those that value all the elements be that.
So there we go now B has two elements.
Well now if you look at a just ray which you'll find is that these two values have also been replaced
.
So as I remember they were 5:46 on 15.
They have been replaced and that is important to remember when you creating a slice of an array.
You're not creating a new array you're actually just working with that same old array you just creating
a view of that array.
So why does that happen.
Well there's just a way that Python or some PI protects the memory of the computer.
So if you create copies and copies of arrays then necessarily then that will just take up memory space
.
So Python automatically an umpire protect protects us that way if we want to actually create a copy
of an array.
Then we can always do that.
We can always just say for instance or a C equals array a dot and then we can look up the function and
we need our method and it's called copy so we just say copy and that way.
Now we've create our A C which is a copy of our array.
And if we say and we change make changes to or a C let's say let's put a 0 in the first element and
then we look at C so you can see we replace zero here and we look at a.
You can see that it's still as it used to be.
So you can always make a copy but you have to call this method and so to tell non-pilot that yes actually
I do want to make a copy I know what I'm doing.
I'm not going to be just using the computer's resources by accident.
So there we go that's how we work with arrays when we slice them.
Just remember that that's an important point that whenever you slice an array you're not actually making
a copy.
You're making a are you creating a view of that same array so if you make changes to the slice you're
going to make changes to the original array.
Have a play around with that.
Give it some practice so just to let that knowledge sink in.
And I look forward see next them.
Until then happy coding.